# mack_RNA_seq
Analysis of Mack1 cell RNA Seq from P27 and P77 cells in 4 cell states: proliferation, serum starvation muscle differentiation, serum reduction muscle differentiation, adipogenic-like phenotype induction.

This project has three main investigations from the data analysis.

# Investigation 1: What allowed for Mack1 cells to grow out from spontaneous immortalization crisis?
--> eSNP-karyotyping

--> Differential expression between pre- and post-crisis cells' RNA

--> Pathway enrichment analysis

--> Cross-reference with literature

# Investigation 2: What gene expression changes link phenotype to genotype?
--> Differential expression between adipogenic-like/proliferation, serum starvation/proliferation, serum starvation/serum reduction

--> Pathway enrichment analysis

--> Cross-reference with literature
# Investigation 3: What receptors are upregulated during growth and can we find ligands to aid in serum-free media (SFM) development?
--> Differential expresssion between proliferation/serum-starvation

--> Regular expression to identify receptors upregulated in proliferation

--> Literature and vendor search for ligands to hit the receptors and thus test in SFM


# Rules for project participants
Make a function if you run an analysis more than once

Comment code abundantly. Label code at the top with the main purpose. Write loading directories here. Include sample sizes (n = ... # of genes, samples)

Name variables with underscores ("_"). It is best to start with a base name for a variable type and add on from there. Example: df_fat_sig

Clearly label functions with input, output, associated data types for inputs/outputs, and a short description of what the function does.


# Notes from Nico
# RNASeq pipeline

This is a general pipeline for RNA-seq differential expression work; here it is being used on mackerel aligned to the tuna genome generated by Michael Saad. We run several analyses and save them in sqlite files which are read and visualized by the FoldChanges front-end, or which can be plotted using custom R code.


## Files background

File with links between LOC accessions and gene names:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/?term=GCF_910596095.1 --> Send to file -> Tabular --> gene_results.txt

featurecounts_results.txt was provided by Michael.

### eggnogg files
Necessary argument from orthology because neither tuna or mackerel genomes
are in handy databases like ensembl, gene ontology, or kegg. First we read
the cds from GCF_910596095.1 and extract the cds accession and the gene id.
This is necessary because the cds from GCF_910596095.1 were fed into
eggnogg-mapper. This file (cds_from_genomic.accessions_only.fna) was 
downloaded from NCBI genomes.
